# Smart Blog Theme for Movable Type 5

Let's get your blog optimized for PC, iPhone, iPad, and Android. 
This theme requires the dynamic publishing and DynamicMTML addon.

Please see the documentation for more details:

* http://www.movabletype.org/documentation/smartphone/ (English)
* http://movabletype.jp/documentation/smartphone/ (Japanese)


## Requirements

This theme requires:

* Movable Type 5.12 or higher
* Dynamic MTML addon 1.5.6 or higher
* mod_rewrite module when you are using apache
* URL Rewrite module when you are using Windows IIS

This theme uses Movable Type's dynamic publishing function.
Please make sure that your server allows to:

* use .htaccess files
* specify php_flag either in .htaccess or in php.ini

This theme may cause "500 Internal Server Error" if your server
is not configured correctly. Please back-up your current blog
templates to restore your blog and remove the following files to
recover from the error.

* .htacess
* .mtview.php


## Installing DynamicMTML addon

This theme requires the DynamicMTML addon.
Download the latest version from the following github repository.

https://github.com/PowerCMS/DynamicMTML

1. Unpack the archive and upload or copy "DynamicMTML.pack" folder to your MT's addons folder ( /path/to/mt/addons ) .
2. Create a new folder called "powercms_files" under your MT's root folder ( /path/to/mt/powercms_files ) and grant a write permission from your Movable Type.
3. Sign-in to MT to complete the database update, and confirm that there is "DynamicMTML Pack x.x.x" in your MT's footer.


## Installing Smartphone Theme

Download the latest version from this repository.

1. Unpack the mt-theme-smart-blog archive.
2. Upload or copy the mt-theme-smart-blog/themes/smart_blog folder
   to your MT's themes folder ( /path/to/mt/themes )
3. Sign in and create a new blog with "Smart Blog" theme
4. Make sure that "Enable DynamicMTML (Create the file .htaccess
   underneath your blog directory)" option is checked
   in "Settings" > "General".


## Troubleshooting for "500 Internal Server Error"

### when you are using suEXEC

If your Movable Type is running under suEXEC or CGIWrap environment
such as on the shared hosting, you must set proper permission to
your blog folder. If you encounter "500 Internal Server Error" with
those environments, please try the following configuration directives
in your mt-config.cgi

    DirUmask 0072
    HTMLPerms 0777
    HTMLUmask 0022
    UploadPerms 0777
    UploadUmask 0022
  

### when your server restricts some .htaccess functions

Some shared hosting prohibit to use "Options" directive in .htaccess.
In that case, please comment out the following statement in
"DynamicMTML .htaccess" template.
There are four lines to be commented out.

    This line should be commented out:
    Options -Indexes +SymLinksIfOwnerMatch
    As:
    # Options -Indexes +SymLinksIfOwnerMatch

Also php_flag directive might be prohibited.
There are four lines to be commented out.

    This line should be commented out:
    php_flag short_open_tag off
    As:
    # php_flag short_open_tag off

Once it is removed from the .htaccess, you should specify it
in php.ini file for your security.


### when you are using apache alias

If your blog is published under the user directory such as
"http://example.com/~nelson/website/blog/" or under the apache alias,
you need to specify the path in "DynamicMTML Bootstrapper" template.
For example if your blog has:

* Site URL: http://example.com/~nelson/website/blog/
* Site Path: /home/nelson/website/blog

You need to specify as following:

$alias_name = '/~nelson/website/blog/';
$alias_path = '/home/nelson/website/blog';    


## Switching to the other blog theme

If you decided not to use smart blog theme, you can simply re-apply
the other theme and remove the following two files under your blog root.
This will also resolve most of "500 Internal Server Error".

* .htacess
* .mtview.php


## Installing on Windows IIS

You need following steps to use this theme on Windows IIS.

### Generate a web.config from the .htaccess

1. Start IIS Manager
2. Select your blog directory from your site
3. Open "Rewrite URL"
4. Click "Import rules"
5. Select .htaccess file in your blog root and click import
6. Select "Apply"

### Modify web.config

Open web.config file with a editor, and modify as following:

The following block should be modified

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <configuration>
        <system.webServer>
        *******
        </system.webServer>
    </configuration>

to
  
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <configuration>
        <location path="." inheritInChildApplications="false">
            <system.webServer>
            *********   
            </system.webServer>
        </location>
    </configuration>


## License

This theme is released under the MIT License.  For the full text of the license, consult the LICENSE.mkd file that was included in this theme's distribution.

## Copyright

The following copyright notice applies to all the files provided in this distribution, including binary files, unless explicitly noted otherwise.

Copyright 2011-2013 Six Apart, Ltd.
